---
author: Russell T Davies
lede: During the final shoot for the new series, Russell T Davies sees a familiar face... 
---
Closing down.

Season's end. The final hour.

It's been a mad old shoot, busy and nuts and hilarious and wonderful. But now it's time to pause. The lights go out over all six studios, *chunk*, *chunk*, *chunk*, that great big noise that stage lights make on film when they're turned off. (Do they really make that noise? I always ask for it, on TV, I sit in the final mix and if a light goes out, I say "Make it go *chunk!*" "It's a bedside lamp." "*Chunk!*")

The lights are still burning on just one set. The TARDIS.

And there's Ncuti and Millie, acting their hearts out. It's not the last scene of the episode - I don't think I've ever shot a last scene last, or a first scene first. This one's a middle bit of the finale. But exciting! Everything is at stake! Enemies are being fought! Fight, Doctor, Ruby, fight!

I stand at the back of the studio. Millie catches my eye. We wave across the distance, but I don't step in. They're busy. Clock ticking. But around me, people are drawing in. Crew, office staff, actors. It's been a week of goodbyes - Yasmin Finney wrapped a few days ago, big hugs, see you soon - but it all comes down to this. The last scene. It's kind of a tradition, to go on set for the closing moments. Not a cast-iron tradition, cos sometimes the last scene is in a field at 2.00am, but if you can, it's nice to come and acknowledge the moment. Plus, there's a party tonight, that helps! So there are dozens and dozens of people, standing in the shadows off-set, bathed in the glow of the monitors. One more take. Jamie the director tells Ncuti to slide to the floor a little slower, or maybe faster, I'm too far away to hear.

And there, to my right, Bonnie Langford! The Doctor's faithful companion, Mel, come to say goodbye (did I say, there's a party?). A hug. Some days I call her Bonnie, some days I call her Bonita, today I say, "Hello Bonsai." "Oh, I'm Bonsai, am I?" "Yes, like a tiny, beautiful shrub."

Then we hush, and watch the action - one more take, okay - and I look at Bonnie, and I think how funny this is. To be standing here with her. I consider the whole thing. Life. Careers. Choices. And in whispers, I tell her a story I've never told before.

Many years ago, I was cast as a *Play School* presenter. It didn't last, I recorded one episode, felt profoundly that I was on the wrong side of the cameras, and walked out of Television Centre saying "No thanks!" I chose to go back on the dole. God, you're cocky when you're young. But when I recorded my one and only episode, we rehearsed in the old North Acton rehearsal rooms. Famous, to a *Doctor Who* fan, as the site of rehearsals for our favourite show. I thought, I wonder...?

So *Play School* had a lunch break, and I went to the canteen, and sat down with my food, and...

There they were. *Doctor Who*. I was in the same room as *Doctor Who*. Oh my God. I could see them. Over there. Sylvester McCoy and Bonnie Langford - all smiles and energy - and a lot of young actors, all laughing and hooting and chatting. A bright bunch of fun. Even from a distance, I could tell; that's fun over there.

I didn't know then, that this was a rehearsal for *Paradise Towers*, and the young actors were Red and Blue Kangs. I only thought, that's *Doctor Who*. That's actual, real, genuine *Doctor Who* being made over there, and I'm over here. I'm in the wrong place. Oh, how I wished. How I wished with all my heart that I could be on that side of the canteen.

Then I went back to work on my one-and-only episode, and I tucked that moment away as a memory. A once in a lifetime thing.

But here I am now. With Bonnie. On the TARDIS. And... that's a wrap!

Whoops, claps, cheers, hugs, hooray! Lots of noise, and Phil Collinson makes a lovely speech, but really, I am smiling and thinking: 36 years. It took me 36 years to be on this set with Bonnie Langford as Mel, making brand new *Doctor Who*.

Go on. Make a wish.