---
author: Russell T Davies
lede: Find out what Russell wore for Richard and Judy, wonder what's behind Door 2 and go on location with The War Between... Ready everyone? "On the first day of Christmas..." 
---
I swear, I wait all year for this. I start planning this page on the first of January. So welcome, Faithful Reader, to my annual *Doctor Who*-themed 12 Days of Christmas for **DWM**. Buckle up, elves, here we go again!

*Twelve eps-a-counting!* The Bad Wolf team is working on 14 episodes in total. That's nine for *Doctor Who* and five for *The War Between the Land and the Sea*. But Christmas 2024 is ready, obviously, and so is Episode 1 of Season 2, introducing Belinda Chandra, signed off on Monday 13 October. (And if you want a Christmas guessing game, an acronym for its title is TRR.) Which leaves us 12 more episodes to go! Onwards!

*Eleven times-a-threeing!* A complicated way of saying 33. Because it's 33 years since I played Santa for Richard and Judy at the Granada TV Christmas party. This has nothing to do with *Doctor Who*, but come on, what a claim to fame. Ho ho ho.

*Ten scenes-a-heading!* The header for Sc 10 of next year's Episode 8 says INT. CUTAWAY, METAL DOOR 2. Oh but wait till you find out what's behind that metal door! Not to mention Doors 1 and 3. Scream!

*Nine eras-a-remembering!* A weapon from the Ninth Doctor's era in 2005 is about to make a terrifying return. I knew nothing about it until the writer handed in their magnificent script, and... pow! What a comeback!

*Eight shows-a-glimpsing!* Keep your fingers crossed, because plans can always change at the last minute, but there should be a teaser trailer for Season 2 dropping at some point over Christmas, with some amazing guest stars in there. We kept quiet about next year's actors while Season 1 was centre stage, or it would've looked confusing. Like, "Which season are they in?!" But the guest list kept on growing! With one star giving away significant clues, which no one picked up on. I can promise, there are wonderful names coming your way as the next season heats up. Here we go!

*Seven words-a-listing!* I like to give three words from an episode, but it's Christmas, let's go with seven words, from Episode 7. It contains: violets, owl, threshold, poppy, slip, Chinese and Persephone.

*Six writers-a-writing!* If you include the Christmas episode, then we have six writers at work on this next tranche of *Doctor Who*. And for one of those writers, on Season 2, this will be their very first TV script. (I just double-checked, and they told me, "For 13 years, I had been trying to make something but was turned down at each juncture.") For another writer, this is their first full-length script after one short film. I'm very proud of that. Proud of the writers, and proud of Bad Wolf, the BBC and Disney+ for opening the door. The fact is, to get your first credit on a great big high-octane worldwide streaming show is a colossal achievement. And it's good for the whole industry, getting new voices on screen. I've been advocating this for years - I exec'd two writers on their first-ever TV series in 2023 - and now *Doctor Who* 2024 is part of that movement. Plus, you get scripts from this ageing thin-blooded librettist too, you're stuck with me, babies!

*Five gooo-ooold riiiings!* Love that bit.

*Four words-a-puzzling!* Tables don't do that.

*Three words-a-naming!* One of next year's characters is a complex beast. Possibly the production team's favourite. And very quotable! The shorthand for this creation is RAD. We have shots labelled "RAD enters the room," "RAD meets the Doctor," "RAD is sad." What on earth does RAD mean?! Not long to wait...

*Two old-hands-a-posing!* You might already have seen a *Radio Times* pre-Christmas photo shoot, centring on an all-time BBC classic double act. From the home of Gavin & Stacey, Wallace & Gromit, Midwife & Baby, we bring you... Moff & RTD. Yes, on a cold October morning, they photographed the two of us, in a fireside setting, with a Christmas tree and presents and tinsel, looking like the grumpiest gay couple in the world. We look like a Hallmark movie in which my niece will fall in love with his nephew. Trust me, we don't want to do this! But it's publicity! We sat there muttering with fixed grins under the lights, trying to imagine the strapline. "Yet Another Turkey." "More Repeats at Christmas." "For the Love of God, Enough." But ultimately, we thought it's bound to be "Talking Turkey." I wonder! On sale soon.

*And a fin missin' in the o-cean!* Yes, a fin. The shoot for *The War Between the Land and the Sea* has taken us all over the place. I had the unique experience of waving the crew off from my flat in Cardiff Bay as they embarked on a ship for the high seas. But the location shoot abroad will be the stuff of many anecdotes to come. To anticipate that, let me tell you... a fin went missing. In a storm! We'd travelled to a place guaranteed sunny weather and calm seas, and in true *Doctor Who* tradition, the heavens opened. An actual electrical storm, on an already-tricky night shoot, so fierce that some bolts of lightning were captured on camera, that's rare! And it looks like great FX. I wasn't there, I was safe, back in the Bay, all warm and toasty, with Pete McTighe texting from a far-flung beach, "We've lost a fin!" Whose fin? What fin? Why fin? All that to come!

Merry Christmas, folks! Nadolig Llawen!

Fin.