---
author: Russell T Davies
lede: "Lessons to be learnt this month: if you're the Doctor Who showrunner always carry a pen, if you're a fan, don't forget your scarf..."
---
Autographs!

I have rules for autographs. (1) Never refuse to sign one. (2) Never. (3) Never charge for an autograph. (4) Ever.

I don't want to sound grand, most days this doesn't matter. But some days, I'm the *Doctor Who* man in a *Doctor Who* place, and the rules are needed. And yet, it's amazing how often we forget. Like with the Proms. We'd organised Daleks and Peg Dolls, we filmed with Jinkx Monsoon, we've got Murray and Segun (I say 'we', Julie Gardner was the powerhouse behind all this) and yet somehow... yeah, we forgot the autograph thing.

So I arrive. And we've got a box. Very nice. Except the box is behind a low wall... right in front of the stalls. No gap, no distance, no hiding! So I get seen! And people converge! And I'm like... oh, Rule 1! But the thing is, when you see signings at conventions and shops, they're very well organised. There are staff, lines, protocols. Now it's just me. Okay, the rest of the *Doctor Who* team is there, but it's Phil Collinson's birthday so they're cutting a giant gay cake with a butter knife. Leaving me. With no pen. NO PEN! That's Rule Zero! (0) Have a pen.

So I'm like, "Anyone got a pen? ANYONE GOT A PEN?" I grab the many different biros of the people queueing. Swapping pens adds 20 seconds to every signature. God, I hate those gold highlighters. And it's hot, it's noisy, I am leaning over the low wall and someone wants me to write out their name, but they whisper. 'What did you say? Jane? Jenny? Jeannie?' Whisper. 'Genie? Like the lamp?' Whisper. 'Can you spell it?' Whisper. 'I'm really sorry, can you SHOUT IT?' Other people try to help her by shouting. Except they can't hear either, so they're going, 'G!' 'J!' 'Gen!' 'Jan!' 'Zen!' I'm like 'WHAT THE HELL IS YOUR NAME?!'

My agent's sitting next to me. She also represents Sally Wainwright. I say, 'I bet Sally doesn't get this on *Gentleman Jack*.' My agent says, 'Oh she does, she goes on buses with them.'

Behind me, an official has appeared to say I'm breaking Health and Safety Regulations and have to stop. But Rules 1 and 2 say I can't. I try to explain while yelling, "HOW DO YOU SPELL ZIMONA?!" (Like that, it turns out.) I say, in full pomposity, "I'm not breaking the rules, the *situation* is breaking the rules!" Phil waves the butter knife and says, "Do you want some cake?" Julie whispers, grave and low, "You really need to stop." Because I haven't told you: there's me, the low wall, and the queue, but sitting under the low wall is a row of innocent people who are now being queued upon. "It's not safe!" "I am NOT STOPPING!"

We have to stop when the show begins. But then Catherine Tate, on stage, says that I'm here. I wave to the left, 2,000 people wave back. I wave to the right, 2,000 people wave back. My agent mutters, "You just showed them where you are." Oh.

So come the interval, an usher pops into the box. She is ashen. "They're forming a queue in the corridor." I'm trapped. The low wall, or the corridor? I say, "Rule 1!" and go out into the corridor. I look to the right; the queue curves round till it's out of sight. Then I realise it's a circular building. I look to the left; there's the end of the queue. Gulp. I sign, sign, sign. Marvellously a man says 'You can keep my Sharpie!' I love you, Mr Man! Thank you! "15 minutes!" says the usher. I can do this in 15 minutes, sure, but then... someone wants a hug! Oh God, do we hug now? And when one's had a hug, everyone wants a hug. I am hugging. This is a new rule. (5) Hug. But a hug adds a good 30 seconds to each signature. Sign, hug, sign, hug, sign, hug. One man, extraordinarily, walks boldly past the entire queue, gives me his programme, I dumbly sign, he walks away and no one objects, simply because he's dressed as Tom Baker. The power of that costume!

Back into the box for the second half. But the officials want a word. They really need to clear the building at the end of the day. How do we get out? I suggest smuggling myself out in a cello case. No one laffs. But Jane Tranter is wise, and has made many nifty escapes in her time. She says, "The loading bay!"

So this is my favourite part of the day. Huge loading bay doors. Which open on to a ramp. But there's a problem, no cars or taxis are allowed on the ramp, or they get an instant fine. So we have to walk. The ramp leads up to the road. To the left, the Albert Hall, where fans are queuing. To the right, freedom, and a pub. But this is the best bit, "Don't say a word," we are told. "Don't let them hear you. Or they will descend." I say, "This is like a zombie movie!" They say, "Shush!" I say, "No, but are you saying, if we make a noise, they'll get us? Actually, seriously, properly like a zombie movie?!" "SHUSH!" So out we creep. In silence. Scared. Like we're in a zombie movie.

I forgot to say: my arthritic knee got crushed in the Low Wall Debacle (Health and Safety, y'see?) so I'm leaning on Anita Dobson. She is 4 foot 2, I am 27 foot, and I'm using her as a crutch. I promise her: "I won't make a sound, Dobs. I will swallow the pain!" Anita is hooting and starts to tell me about the time she... SHHHHHH! Anita Dobson is literally shushed! She grips my arm. We creep onwards. In silence.

We tip-toe up the ramp. We reach the road. We turn right. I can smell booze and a sausage roll, and there's the glint of a beer-garden fairy-light, we're almost there...

"Russell!" From the left! THEY'VE SEEN ME.

I turn to our brave little team. A tear glistening in Anita's eye. Julie and Jane clutching each other. Phil clutching his big gay cake. I say nobly, "Go without me, my friends. I'd only hold you up. I'll fight them off to gain you some time. Goodbye."

They run. The crowd descends.

Pull out to a high, wide shot as I disappear beneath the writhing bodies. Ready to Sharpie to the end. My last words ringing out: "Is that SEAN or SHAUN or SIAN? Claire with a I or Clare without? And do you realise how many versions of KERRY THERE ARE??!?"