---
author: Russell T Davies
lede: Doctor Who's showrunner brings us up-to-date with the globe-trotting exploits of his fellow execs, while he spends a night at the museum... 
---
We are all over the place!

It's July. And our executive producer, Julie Gardner, is in Pasadena. Another executive producer, Phil Collinson, is in New York. And I'm in old London Town.

Julie has gone to the 40th TCA Awards - that's the Television Critics Association - because *Doctor Who* has won Outstanding Achievement in Family Programming. We were up against really wonderful shows, like *Heartstopper*, *Renegade Nell*, *Percy Jackson* [*and the Olympians*] and *X-Men '97*, so that's particularly nice. Julie says there was much applause!

And New York? Phil's not on holiday, he's working. He's there to record ADR (that's Automated Dialogue Recording, replacing or adding or enhancing dialogue for the show, so it's a sound session, no cameras). He's recording with a great guest star for next year's Season 2. Usually, that sort of thing is done down the line - the director, Amanda Brotchie, is attending on Zoom from her home in Australia - but this is just good timing, because Phil's also in town with a film crew to shoot a special sequence for... oh, redacted, sorry, but you'll know all about it next issue! On top of that, he texts me, "It's Pride weekend!" Of all the times to choose. His next text: "Guess who's recording in the same studio? Rihanna!" That man is a glitter magnet.

It's like this at the moment, all bits and pieces, while our major new spin off moves into Bad Wolf Studios (it's daft, but on the day I'm writing this, that show hasn't yet been announced at San Diego Comic-Con, so I'm superstitiously wary of naming it here, even though you'll have heard the news by the time this is printed. More on that, next issue!). But back to the bits and pieces. Although Season 2 wrapped way back, on 24 May, there are still moments we need to pick up. After much wrangling, we've just been given permission for a very particular shot of London, to be grabbed in the next month or so, for FX work. And New York isn't the first time we've shot abroad this year - we had an important drone shoot in a major city, thousands of miles away. All to come!

And me? I'm in London to go to Madame Tussauds (no apostrophe, fact fans) for the unveiling of Ncuti Gatwa's wax figure. I'm told, "We don't call them waxworks any more." That's a big faux pas in the wax community, apparently. You see, you learn things in **DWM**.

I've never been to Tussauds before. So my image of it is taken largely from the *Doctor Who* story *Spearhead from Space* (1970, on the iPlayer now) where the Third Doctor sneaks in at night, and it's dark and spooky and the wax figures are scarily still and unblinking. And I think, as I arrive, that's daft, that's a cliché, and I won't mention it, because I don't want to offend the wax community. And then lo and behold, I'm taken in, after closing hours, through a back door, in the dark, into the unlit and unblinking displays, so OH MY GOD IT'S SCARY. I cling on to Timothée Chalamet for safety. A glittery RuPaul helps to light the way. Oh, there's the Rock, except I once walked past the real Rock in Television Centre when I was plugging *Partners in Crime* on Breakfast TV, so, y'know, hi Rock, I'm blasé. And Madame Tussauds has caused me to use the acute accent more than is normal. I hope we have canapés. Or is that passé? Oh my GOD, that's David Beckham!

Then they ask me to walk around the corner, unaccompanied. "The TARDIS is on the left." Because they've got a camera crew and want to capture my live reaction. Which feels kind of weird, like I've got to go "Gasp" and "Oh my!" and "Wow!" on cue. So I turn the corner, and... oh actually, gasp, oh my, wow! I've never seen a wax figure of someone I know before, and it's astonishing. Really, truly, amazing work. It's... him, it's really, simply, amazingly him. Which is obvious, I know, but you realise why places like Madame Tussauds have lasted for centuries. There's something thrilling and chilling about someone captured so perfectly in absolute stillness.

I'd imagined that all the figures would be roped off, at a safe distance, but no! There's no barrier. They *want* you to stand there and have your photo taken with them. Tussauds practically invented the selfie. I ask if that causes damage, and Jo Kinsey, the Studio Manager, tells me that a team goes in every single morning, for two or three hours, to brush and tidy and mend. Amazing! The photographer also gives me a good tip; if you take a selfie with a wax figure, put the camera on the figure's eyeline. That way, they seem the most alive. And it's true!

The staff are so delightful, and so happy to have *Doctor Who* on site - plus the TARDIS, and a vista of the UNIT tower. They film a little quiz with me and a fan called Charlie, whose son, Oliver, 7, is obsessed with the show. Just as we hoped. Thank you, Charlie and Oliver!

I notice that an area next to the TARDIS, opposite Paddington Bear, is closed off. That's the 007 section, still being built. All the James Bonds. I reckon, one day, they might simply put Ncuti's wax figure in a tuxedo and move him 20 feet to the left. Seriously. Best Bond ever. I'd watch that movie!

Then it's time to go. Thank you, thank you. Such a lovely time, such great people. As I walk out, they've put the lights on. "So you can have a selfie with Timothée Chalamet." Oh God, no! I decline, saying that the wax museum effect is now in reverse - I'm terrifying in the light, plunge me into darkness, pronto!

Touché.