---
author: Russell T Davies
lede: "Russell T Davies reflects on the Best Week Ever: 25-30 September 2023..."
---
Hello, faithful readers. We are BUSY! In CAPITAL LETTERS!

Downstairs, in Wolf Studios, all seven stages are full to the brim. Studio 1 contains the UNIT Ops Room and Ruby and Carla's Flat, both about to spring back into life. In Studio 2, there's the remnants of Christmas 2024. Studio 3, a hospital, Studio 4, a set so real, we could rent it out as its actual self. Studio 6, the TARDIS and an absolute labyrinth of a set. Phil Collinson said, "I walked round it yesterday and got lost!"

But, but, but... hold on. Wait! Hype to come. Season One's not quite here yet. (We had a marketing meeting about it the other day, where the question was asked, "After launching the Specials, and then Christmas, can we really manage another big launch, so soon?" But then the BBC One team unfurled their magnificent plans, and the answer was, oh yes!) Sometimes though, we race along so fast, I forget to look back. So I'll just pause and reflect on the Best Week Ever. 25-30 September 2023. The week we shot all six Tales of the TARDIS.

The thing is. I don't do conventions. They're not for me. Phil has always said I'm mad, and what fun they are, and how the best thing is that you become mates with actors from the classic show. That week, I saw it in action. Every day became a rolling convention, in and out of the office, as actors came in for costume fittings and prep. Scott Handcock would pop his head round my door, "Katy Manning's here!" And in she'd come, all smiles and hugs and hoots. "Janet's in!" Hello, smiles, hugs, hoots. "Sophie!" Hugs! This became like a normal day. I wouldn't have been surprised if I'd found Kamelion lurking by accounts.

And the best part was, we couldn't let all these actors come to Cardiff, the home of *Doctor Who* itself, without celebrating them. So while we shot each Tale, one a day, at night, we'd take tomorrow's team out for dinner. Partly so that the director, Joshua Thomas, could meet them and get to know them before the next day's shoot... but to hell with that, the real reason was so that we could sit and hoot! The Ivy in Cardiff became our convention centre. (And hey, I paid, none of this came out of your licence fee.)

The joy of it! The laughter. The comradeship. The family. All of us instantly slipping into the same language, the same references, the same in-jokes. We raised toasts to John Nathan-Turner and to many of those long-gone. And it was wonderful for me, to meet people I'd built up in my mind from a hundred interviews in **DWM**, and then to see more, to look deeper, to meet the real person underneath. Not with any great surprises - the people you see are the people you get, and that's wonderful. But we're all a bit more complicated than our anecdotes. So to relax, to talk, to muse and to reflect was such an honour.

Colin's so wise about the industry, and about life. Peter has a beautiful, lightly-crafted wryness that made me roar. Nicola is absolutely fascinating, with powerful insights into the world. Sophie's love of her family is like a shining beacon. Janet, oh, so sharp and brilliant and hilarious. Sylvester and I simply fell in love. Katy's care and compassion - asking after my late husband - was a very great treasure. Good old Danny hadn't changed a speck, and meeting his girlfriend was delightful. And Wendy and Fraser carry decades of love and friendship between them, their gorgeous patter so well-honed, it made me realise a simple truth: when they cast Doctors and companions in the past, they really did cast the best. We take that for granted, as fans. But truly. Step back. Look at them. They are the best of actors and the best of people. We were lucky then and lucky now, and the fact that they continue to love this show is a miracle.

The only two who missed dinner were Peter and Maureen, because we had the *Doctor Who* Radio 2 concert that night. And I think they were glad to escape our table manners. But this meant I had the great delight of meeting them on set, on the actual Remembered TARDIS itself. What an honour! Both so kind and shrewd and happy, welcoming me on board like true captains of the ship.

When the shoot came to an end, I realised a very simple thing. It had been the happiest working week of my entire career. And I've been lucky, I've had some really exceptional times. But yes, without a doubt. That was the happiest. Thank you, all of you!

The good times rolled on. When it came to the launch of *The Star Beast* (doesn't that feel like history now?), we invited the Tales cast, along with others - oh, meeting Carole Anne Ford was like meeting royalty. And the crucial thing is, they weren't just guests. They're part of the show. Now and forever. I think a proper integration had happened. After the screening, with everyone buzzing and hooting and gossiping, Phil looked around the room, and said "Have you noticed? The classic cast. It's like they're all standing a foot taller."

He was right. The launch of Tales, plus the 60th, and colourised Daleks, combined with the arrival of the mighty Whoniverse (61.7 million hits on iPlayer, way beyond all expectations) has brought down the final barriers. We've always been unsure of the correct phraseology - Classic Who, New Who, Nu-Who? - but it really doesn't matter any more.

It's all one great big wonderful *Doctor Who*.

Onwards!