---
author: Russell T Davies
lede: A star-studded guest-list of Doctor Who legends join the series' showrunner for the wedding of the year! 
---
Come with me, Faithful Reader, to the north of England, for the wedding of our executive producer Phil Collinson and the wonderful Peter.

Okay, this page can be many things. Mostly I suspect, you're looking for dates and details and Proper Nouns, and a spoiler about the return of the Meddling Monk (oh damn). But *Doctor Who* is more than that. It's our lives and our loves and even our livelihoods, so sometimes we should mark that. Of course, much of that day is private and personal, but there's a huge *Doctor Who* slant to be found. We're fans, first and foremost! So pin on that buttonhole and walk this way, dear guest.

I first met Peter when Phil brought him to my own wedding day, back in 2012. My husband, Andrew, was very ill and taking lots of steroids. I posted a photo and a *Doctor Who* fan commented, "RTD has married a Sontaran."

But today, what to expect? Phil is much more of a dyed-in-the-wool *Doctor Who* fan than me - truly, when we were making *The Daleks in Colour*, he could practically pin a scene down to its day of recording in Lime Grove Studios. So I'm half-expecting him go the full *Vicar of Dibley* and turn up in a Dalek wedding dress. But no! Both grooms out-Doctor any Doctor in the most beautiful of suits.

And look! There's an actual Doctor! David Tennant, giving a reading, Shakespeare's *Sonnet 18*. And we might be wizened old hacks on the production team - me, Jane, Joel, Julie and her husband Julian (they met on the *Doctor Who* set when he was the sound recordist on Series 4, it's weddings galore!) but even we are thinking, "Oh my God, it's Doctor Who!" And Georgia's there too, married to the Tenth and Fourteenth Doctors, daughter of the Fifth Doctor, Jenny in *The Doctor's Daughter*. Royalty!

And the readings aren't over. It turns out, when *42*'s Captain Kathryn McDonnell sacrificed herself by jumping out of an airlock from the *SS Pentallian*, she didn't die, she fell to Earth just outside Clitheroe, so Michelle Collins is here, reading a poem for the congregation.

The floodgates have opened. There's Tracy Ann Oberman, or Tracy Ann Cyberman as we still call her. Louise Page! Designer of the Tenth Doctor's costume, "I've been on *Grantchester* for eight years now, I'm on my fourth vicar!"

And bow down, Donna Noble is in the house. Catherine Tate in all her glory! We all came up the night before and had a mini-convention in the hotel bar. Ah, the stories that will never be told!

As the evening expands, more faces. A truly marvellous moment as different eras cross and Ed Thomas, designer from 2005-2010, arrives to meet, for the first time, Phil Sims, designer of today's TARDIS. Hugs! I wonder what they talk about. Roundels, no doubt. Then two hands clasp around my neck like a mummy's strangulation - Des Hughes! Line producer on *Doctor Who* for Series 7 and an old mucker of mine going all the way back to *The Second Coming* in 2003.

Hannah and Bob are here, from way back on Series 1. "We had the first *Doctor Who* baby!" Pete McTighe has driven up with Joel. Ceres! Jennie! Danny! Robyn! Murray Gold and his beautiful family. Tim Hodges, who's up for a BAFTA for editing *Wild Blue Yonder*; to think, he was a runner for us, way back in 2005. Our beloved Tracie Simpson is in one corner, "And then the bus arrived in Dubai and got destroyed!" And there's Steven Moffat and Sue Vertue - old hands at this, because when Phil took Peter away to a posh hotel to propose to him, Steven and Sue were staying there too!

It's so busy and excited and fun, I miss people. The next day, I'm told that Jenna Russell was there - the floor manager from *The Parting of the Ways*, so brutally exterminated by the Daleks, "The bullets don't work!" - but I missed her! And Tracey Childs, too, Metella from Pompeii. But I'm there for a big hug with Blon Fel-Fotch Passameer-Day Slitheen, otherwise known as my lovely friend, Annette Badland. Dame Bad, I call her.

It's a mad, happy, bubbling crush. People are dancing and hooting and feasting. One wedding cake is a tower of pork pies. Yes, a tower of pork pies. And if you gave it an eyestalk and drew on some bumps with a Sharpie, it could look like a Dalek, although maybe I'm stretching it now.

It's far more than *Doctor Who*, of course. Barbara Knox is at the bar. My two sisters are hooting with Tim Vincent and *Coronation Street* scriptwriters. And far more importantly, there are family and friends, mates and mums, exes and oh-I-wish (hello Chad), three wonderful nephews and one very tiny aunt. Then all the *Doctor Who* people decide to have a photo. It's a lovely, Overlook Hotel-style snap of happy, smiling faces... except for me. Because I took 20 minutes to go to my room and answer emails about *The War Between*. "I think we could move General Pierce to the Control Room for Sc.1/61." Damn it!

But that doesn't matter. Because earlier in the day, in the speeches - the lovely, funny, heartfelt speeches - Phil paid tribute to my late husband. The wheel turned and a circle was closed. As Phil said, in that moment, Andrew was with us.

Then we danced and hopped and laughed into the night, Doctors, companions, writers, designers, cast and crew, united by this show on one of the happiest days of our lives.

Congratulations, Phil & Peter.

We love you.