---
author: Russell T Davies
lede: What links The Pirate Planet, The Christmas Invasion's ill-fated Danny Llewellyn and a branch of Marks & Spencer? 
---
Happy new year!

2025 is arriving in a rush, as hundreds of servers across Britain and Ireland hum and whirr and brew, rendering gorgeous FX shots for Season 2. It's hurtling towards us! But as the hype begins to build, there's just time in this post-Christmas lull to step back one month, to December 2024, where a lovely *Doctor Who* thing happened to me.

As fans, we love how this show of ours connects with the rest of the industry. How the BBC's *Party Animals* launched Matt Smith before *Doctor Who* did. How Verity Lambert was an assistant at ITV when Sydney Newman spotted her to become *Doctor Who*'s first producer. And here's another of those tales, to show how *Doctor Who* and its makers are woven into the industry.

In December, the Women in Film & TV Awards asked me to present an award to Frith Tiplady. She's a producer and a titan of television, just google her CV. *Peaky Blinders! The Gentlemen, Bodies, Fortitude...* and a distinct lack of *Doctor Who*, for her sins. But look closer...

They'd asked me to present the award because way back in 1998, Frith was locations assistant on my Channel 4 show, *Queer As Folk*. Famously, at one point, during the shoot of a very delicate and explicit sex scene, the director had to say, "Could you get out of the shot, Frith!?" And we've remained mates ever since, because she's just wonderful; funny and clever and kind, and she's done a hell of a lot of work with BECTU to improve conditions for workers throughout the UK industry. She's an absolute star.

So now, it's the awards, and we're sitting in a grand ballroom on Park Lane. We've had a posh dinner, and the awards begin. Frith knows she's being given the award, it's not a surprise, so she's getting her speech ready and turns to me and says, "Well, of course I'm going to mention Pennant Roberts [pictured above]."

I think she tells me this because I'm Welsh. But to me, Pennant is a legend of *Doctor Who*. He directed *The Face of Evil*, *The Pirate Planet*, tons of stuff, and it's said he cast Louise Jameson as Leela. I'd actually worked for him myself. Back in 1986, I was 23 years old, working in theatre in Cardiff, and Pennant somehow got my name - after all these years, I can't remember how - because he was auditioning actors for an episode of ITV's *Dramarama*, and he wanted help to find someone for the lead role, a 12-year-old Welsh boy. I arranged some auditions, but actually, it was easy, because I'd already worked on a Children's BBC show called *Why Don't You...?* with a lad called Daniel Evans, who was perfect. (And to keep the connections going, 19 years later, Daniel was murdered on BBC1 in *The Christmas Invasion*, electrocuted by a Sycorax whip! He's now the joint artistic director of the Royal Shakespeare Company, but never mind that, a Sycorax whip, eh?!)

So Daniel got the job, and that was the very first time I went on a TV drama set, as they filmed spooky goings-on around Castell Coch (many years later, Martha Jones would journey there to find the Osterhagen Key, and the Eleventh Doctor and Rory used the courtyard to enter the Calvierri residence). Pennant himself was a wonderful man, big and Welsh and indomitable, with a twinkle in his eye. "Great face," says Frith. So I ask her how she knew him. And it turns out, she owes everything to Pennant! I've known her for 26 years but never knew this. She explained...

In 1994, Frith was living in Cardiff, working in theatre, desperate to get into TV. So she sent letters to everyone, asking for work experience. And to her surprise, Pennant Roberts left a message on her answerphone, asking her into HTV, the Welsh commercial channel. So she went along (that building's now a Marks & Spencer's) and was offered a couple of weeks on a Welsh language Casualty-type show, *Glan Hafren*. Not paid - Frith had to ask for a Wednesday afternoon off, to go and sign on! - but the most brilliant experience, and it confirmed for Frith that this was the life she wanted to lead. Halfway through the shoot, Pennant called her in for a chat, and told her why he'd responded to her letter, as opposed to the many others he'd receive. He said that most requests for work experience tend to say "I'll do anything, I'll make the tea!" (And this is still true today.) But Frith's letter had been specific, saying she wanted to work in drama production. That's why she stood out. She knew what she wanted. And indeed, that's why she's been so successful as a producer for all these years; she knows what she wants. That's rare! And Pennant saw that quality, all those years ago. It's great advice, to write a letter like that, and it's still advice Frith gives out to this day. Maybe passing it on here will help some of you, too. And I love that; the words of Pennant Roberts echoing down through the years, still doing good.

Then back to the awards! We go on stage and Frith thanks Pennant, and everyone claps and cheers. (And if I had more room, there's a very funny story in which Frith and I manage to *completely ignore* Zoe Saldana!)

But it feels like a circle is closed, as Pennant is remembered and celebrated. The echoes go on; another producer in the audience, the wonderful Catrin Lewis Defis (another connection, this time to Bad Wolf, because she produced *The Winter King*) owns an original *Doctor Who* script signed by Pennant, and offers to give it to Frith. That kind, clever, brilliant man was lost to us 15 years ago, but here he is now, with laughter and joy and excellence all around, living on, as wonderful and Welsh as ever.

Happy new year, everyone, in these never-ending *Doctor Who* days.