---
author: Russell T Davies
lede: Charting the development of the last two years... What was The Raid? Who is the Boss? And what's in store for the future? 
---
Faithful reader, here it is!

The complete list. Seasons 1 and 2. This has been on the drawing board next to my computer here in Manchester for years now, my handwritten list of episodes in what we call The First Order. The second year is to the left of the first, which is odd - I'd call it timey-wimey, but the truth is, to the right, there's a drawing of my mate Tom for his birthday, so I had to adapt.

And they aren't dated! That's mad of me, I should know that everything to do with *Doctor Who* is archived. Apologies! But it was just a scribble, to my side, a reminder, every day. The Season 2 list wasn't written at the same time as Season 1, of course, it grew as decisions were made. To be honest, this list was simply a crutch. Every time a Shooting Script was finally delivered, I'd put that tick next to the name. Oh the relief!

It didn't really change much, did it? Though I'm glad we came up with the title *73 Yards*, not just *Welsh*. I didn't really keep track of the changes - there's some stuff here I can't remember. I don't know what the big crossing-out for Season 1 Episode 6 is... though I suspect that was Inua Ellams, shifting seasons. I think Kate Herron and Bryony Redman came in slightly later with the *Rogue* pitch and I thought "Oh, I like that," so I guess it bumped up.

Season 1 Episode 7 looks odd! *The Raid*. Why was it called *The Raid* when there wasn't a raid?! But I can remember that. Way back, when ideas were first taking shape, maybe a year before actual scripts existed, I knew there'd be a Susan Triad, a modern-day businesswoman. But it was much more the story of Two Towers. The UNIT Tower, and a mile across the river, the Triad Tower. It was like a war across London, with the two landmarks glowering at each other. And that's where the raid came in. I imagined, way back, that a big part of the plot was the Doctor simply getting to meet Susan, because she had layers of security around her. Mel, undercover, would have reported that Susan Triad had a mysterious steel door in her private office, and Susan would demand to be left alone to open that door. It was a portal to a sort of null space - she was a lot more aware of her heritage in those first ideas, and went into that room to commune with Sutekh (or something; bear in mind this was never written, these were just early thoughts).

So the Doctor would have to carry out a raid, a heist, a big spy-movie *Mission: Impossible* adventure to get inside the Triad Tower and uncover the truth. Literally climbing the glass walls of the skyscraper, that sort of thing. All leading to the big climax.

Ideas grow and develop and change. Not to mention the fact that the Eleventh Doctor once rode a motorbike up a skyscraper, the big show-off, so my raid seemed a bit cumbersome! More importantly, the notion of Susan Triad evolved; she'd be unaware, even innocent, and much more forward-facing in public, a benefactor. So the secrecy disappeared. It made me laugh when I eventually wrote that scene of the Doctor and Mel striding into the Triad Tower with a lanyard and flash of the psychic paper - 20 seconds which made me think, "This was once the entire plot!"

The idea lingered for the first couple of drafts, with FX adding another skyscraper to the London skyline. And yes, since there'd been no sign of the Triad Tower in *The Giggle*, Kate said, "They built that fast!" The UNIT Helipad was much more important, as they looked across at the Triad Tower, with Mel, inside Triad, looking out at them.

But no, it all slipped away, ideas changed, and the raid faded out of existence, a Poppy of an idea, remembered only by me. (The writer Julia Raeside calls those ideas a bayleaf, just leaving a taste. I love that!)

But everything else, yes, very much as planned. I still think of *Lucky Day* as *Meanwhile*, I'd love to use that title one day. And changes were made as we went along, as with any show, but this order stayed, and flourished, as Ruby's time-lost life at Christmas circled round to Poppy's time-lost life, and two foundlings found each other so they could find a home for a third, little Joe Sunday, all heading towards... *The End*.

No, not *the* end, don't be mad. *Doctor Who* will never end! There are pathways leading to potential futures - we've still got the mystery of that bright and blazing ending, "Oh, hello," yes indeed, hello Billie! And there's Susan, of course. I wonder if we'll ever find out who the Boss is. Or who the Boss are. (I'm still wondering who Gus is, from *Mummy on the Orient Express*. Maybe they're the same!)

But we don't know what's happening yet, and while everyone works that out, I'll take a pause on this page. Thanks for reading! And thanks to **DWM**, a delight to work with you on this wonderful magazine. Hopefully, we'll have news soon, and certainly, *The War Between the Land and the Sea* is about to break out, so there are great things ahead. Until then...

It has been an absolute joy.