---
author: Russell T Davies
lede: As the series progresses, Doctor Who's head writer talks about the development of this year's scripts... 
---
Let's talk Orishas.

While the show's transmitting - two episodes to go! - this page becomes a running commentary. And it's a chance to look at stories that didn't happen, or how those that happened changed their shape.

Way back, on 25 October 2022, Ncuti was interviewed by the BBC and said he'd love the TARDIS to go to Nigeria so he could meet the Orishas, spirits from the Yoruba religion of West Africa. Okay! What the Doctor wants, the Doctor gets. So I set out on my quest, except it wasn't quite that easy...

I confess, so far, we haven't got there (spoilers, but in Episodes 7 and 8, no Orishas in sight, sorry). But back in 2022, I started work on ideas set in the year 2100 - by then, it's said there will be vast megacities sprawling across Africa. Great location! So I spoke to a number of writers about that, but it didn't quite click. I won't go into detail because there's still a good story buried in there, but onwards we went.

Next, I spoke to a writer I was mentoring, and we got talking about what happens to the Gods once mankind relocates to another planet. Since Gods now exist in the Whoniverse, then who or what would they become once footfall is made on a distant world? Would the Gods belong? Would they fade? Would they, we wondered - and this got exciting - become visible for the first time in millennia? (I know this sounds vague and daft, but this is the earliest stage of storytelling, where anything and everything can happen and nothing should be blocked, it all exists in a great big state of... maybe.)

We worked on that story for quite a while, and we had some books about the Orishas translated from Yoruba to deepen the research. But the story was working in two contrary ways. Gods of the old world... on a new world. I thought that was rich, but it turned out to be shallow. Okay, we decided the story could work if it was set back on Earth. But time had moved on, and the rest of the season was coalescing around us, and I simply had too many Earth stories. The quest to get Belinda home had to feel more far-flung. Sadly, this script stepped aside (still a good idea though, another one to keep in storage).

At the same time, I was talking to Sharma Angel-Walfall, and I wondered if the Orishas could be part of the hostile, distant world she was conjuring up. Sharma ended up co-writing *The Well*, so you can see those wild and brutal landscapes on screen. But the initial idea about Planet 6-7-6-7 was Midnight-free, focusing on human colonists braving the elements to settle into their new home. Again, I pushed my Orisha-agenda and asked, did they bring their Gods with them? But again, the story wriggled away from us and became something new. And that's good, you should always follow the story! This adventure said: never mind Gods on a new planet, what about *life* on a new planet? Sharma wrote a wonderful script about humans mutating under a different sun. For research, we looked at what happens when you put a mixture of cornstarch and water on a loudspeaker. That sounds mad! But go and look it up, it's weird, it's fascinating, it's mesmerising, it's... very *Doctor Who*. It took us right back to the educational purpose of *Doctor Who* as laid out by its founding father, Sydney Newman, he'd have loved it!

So that script was developed, Orisha-free. But rather expensive, with heavy CGI and prosthetics, and by this stage, the script for *The Interstellar Song Contest* had arrived, demanding the same resources and leapfrogging over us. And also... look, I loved that brave little colony, but at the heart of it was a love story. So tender and beautifully written. But as Season 2 unfolded on either side of this episode, I really wanted a tale of terror. So that script got tucked away - I hope we go back to it, it was so clever and heartfelt - and we created *The Well* instead.

Running parallel with all these attempts was a script from a man born to write the Orishas, Inua Ellams. His very first instinct was to pilot the TARDIS to Lagos. I thought, hooray, Orishas ahoy! But again, they slipped through our fingers. Inua had much grander ambitions - you've seen the episode by now, he wanted all mythologies everywhere, all at once! The daughter of Anansi, tales of Thor and Loki, plus Inua's own invention, the Noctis Inknid, his name for that wonderful Story Spider. It's a script that exalts and disproves godhood all at once. So my cosmic ideas suddenly felt very small. There's no need for the Orishas if they're just a footnote.

So yet again, they slipped out of sight. But the quest goes on. And I wonder...

One of the central Gods of the Orishas is Eshu. A trickster, the cheeky, lively God who stands as the balance between happiness and chaos. I can't help thinking, he sounds like the Doctor! Maybe he's been with us for 62 years.

I mean, look at the evidence, look at the tricks and games coming up. The shocks and horrors of the Wish World! A brand new God of the Pantheon! The Unholy Trinity! An extra-long finale, premiering on BBC One and cinemas too! Plus an hour-long *Unleashed* looking at the past 20 years which reunites David Tennant and Billie Piper on camera to relive the olden days. What times!

Well played, Eshu, well played.

Here we go!