---
author: Russell T Davies
lede: Doctor Who's showrunner prepares us for a whole new list of words that are about to enter fan lore... 
---
Here we go!

Hissing and clanking and sparking down the tracks, Season 2 is on the way. Or Season 15. Or Season 41 of the entire show. All these titles are true!

Bear in mind, last year's transmission began on 11 May. Which means, from that 11 May to this year's 11 May, you'll have had 14 new episodes of *Doctor Who* within one year. Just like you got way back in 2005, isn't that good? Am I going to get away with that reading? Yes? I think so. Side-eye.

And keep those eyes peeled, because this is when TV gets exciting. A show like *Doctor Who* is a huge machine and as it gears up for action, the size and scale of it means that there will be glitches. Lovely, mad glitches. Already, we've had bumps and thumps to our planned schedule. We were intending to announce our transmission date of 12 April to the world at the beginning of March... until Saturday 22 February, when the entire production team awoke to the news that the date had been leaked during, incredibly, (consults notes) half-time of the Under-20s Six Nations England vs Scotland match available on the BBC iPlayer via the Red Button. Okay! It becomes an exciting morning. Texts fly. People scramble to fix it. At one point, the whole match is pulled off the iPlayer. I send an email, "Bit tough on the rugby mums?" The match is restored.

But why and how?! Oh, glitches, systems, endboards, etc, it was an honest mistake. But I think this is fun. Remember last year, when a trailer was dropped on Facebook on the wrong morning? For about 20 minutes? Seen by absolutely no one? What this proves is, you now have to watch every single second of any BBC transmission anywhere in case you catch a lucky break. What a great strategy!

And you can decide your own strategy of how to view. I recently met a fan who said proudly, "I'm a 7 o'clock man!" Oh really? What's that then? "I only watch it on a Saturday night on BBC One, there is no other way for me. I have to spend the whole of Saturday with my phone off, not talking to anyone, so I don't get any spoilers." Oh, I said, admirable. And then I said, well take care with Episode 7. Oh, in fact. Episode 6 is even worse, lock yourself in a box that day. Oh no, wait! Episode 3! That's the one! Killer reveal! Be careful! (I type this now, in February, fully aware that at this rate, the secret might be broadcast behind Fiona Bruce's head on *Question Time*, but hey ho, fingers crossed.) (Also, that would look great, wouldn't it?)

My favourite thing about a new series of *Doctor Who* is the lorryload of lore that's about to be delivered. I don't just mean sci-fi lore - although there's some of that this year, new Time Lord facts, new things about Gallifrey. Just a smattering, some good stuff. But I mean the sheer existence of names and words and dialogue that will now become part of that ever-revolving cyclone of fan lore. There comes a moment, during production, when Louise - I mentioned Louise last month, she puts together all the billings and credits - has to ask for characters' surnames. Because some people exist in the scripts with a simple first name only, or maybe they come from the planet where Xxybbidoo is the only name they'll ever have. So Louise has to ask. And that's fun, cos it's a chance for all the writers to go back through old scripts, in order to decide. Okay, that's not just Winnie, that's... um, Winnie Petheridge! Our script editor, David Cheung, then has to go and clear that name, in case a real-life Winnie Petheridge threatens to sue. (Once upon a time, I had to invent five surnames for *Torchwood: Miracle Day* that had never existed! The point being, that there was no record of these secret families anywhere in history. Blimey, that took a while.) Once the name is cleared, it goes on to the credits and then - this is my favourite bit - out into the fan lore, which means that for the rest of time, someone will keep count of the fact that a Petheridge exists in *Doctor Who*. And somewhere, one day, a Petheridge will think, oh that's my name! New facts, always the new facts.

New dialogue, too, for us all to taste. I said a while back, how Sarah Lancashire can still rattle off her full title from *Partners in Crime* all these years later. And recently, I met up with the actor Mali Harries, who played Cathy Salt in the 2005 episode, *Boom Town*. Mali's never stopped working since, she's a wonderful leading actor, though I hadn't seen her for 20 years, so it was a lovely reunion. We were meeting up in London for a rehearsed reading of a play with Michael Sheen, but we got talking about *Doctor Who* and how much fun it was. Mali said she could still remember the dialogue. And standing there in the street on a cold December morning, she said, "He was concerned about the reactor, specifically that the design of the suppression pool would cause the hydrogen re-combiners to fail, precipitating the collapse of the containment isolation system and resulting in a meltdown."

Wow - 20 years old. I wrote that but I don't remember it, I had to transcribe that off the iPlayer, just now. But that's what I love, the unexpected things about *Doctor Who* that noodle their way into your head and become part of your vocabulary.

And here comes more! Another whole eight episodes!

I hope you enjoy it. We all do, all of us down here in Cardiff in the Studios of the Wolf. A programme made with love and care and then... we let go! Now it becomes yours, for ever more. So I ask you, Faithful Viewer, set the controls for 12 April, and remember...

Tables don't do that.