---
author: Russell T Davies
lede: As we make our way through the new season, Russell shares the logistics of some last minute changes... 
---
Belinda once lived in a very different house.

Yes, we're mid-transmission, so now I can use this page as a kind of running commentary. Because although we have tons of BTS footage and *Unleashed* and **DWM** articles, there are still lots of unspoken facts to be shared. So off I go! I'll have to be careful - I know this issue will published after Episode 2, *Lux*, and two days before Episode 3, *The Well*. But sometimes the process goes mad. Sometimes an issue of **DWM** will arrive accidentally a week early, I think that happened at Christmas. I don't know why! Maybe a big cigar-chomping publishing magnate throws a massive lever saying, "Nothing in the world can stop me now!" Or maybe an underling drops a coffee in the keyboard. That's more likely. But it's beyond anyone's control, so I'll go lightly on the *Lux* stuff, in case you haven't seen it yet.

But back to *The Robot Revolution*... Yes, Belinda's house. Originally it was just Belinda alone living there. We shot it that way, and edited it, and finished the episode. But it bugged me. Isn't that house a bit big for one person? In London? How much money has Miss Belinda Chandra got? I worried that it undermined her. We're establishing a hard-working NHS nurse in London 2025, but you could have a roller-skating derby in that kitchen!

So we met, the bosses, we had a chat. We wondered, maybe her parents bought her the house? Possible. But how do we tell the viewers that? And at London prices, that still makes them millionaires. And even then, they'd get their money back by having lodgers in the other bedrooms, surely? I was very much thinking of my niece, Natalie (hiya Nat) (I don't think she reads **DWM**, farewell Nat!) who's just moved to London as a junior doctor, and she's jammed into a house-share with three mates - loving it, hating it, all the fuss about the fridge and the rota and the washing-up. Yes, I thought, that's more Belinda.

So, we decided to change it, and if any of you are interested in writing and production and that sort of thing, this is how we did it.

I did a rewrite. This was months after we'd finished, so I had to be careful and kind to the budget and resources. But I like this sort of challenge! We'd kept the kitchen set, so that was lucky. In the middle of shooting some other episode, we took Varada back to the kitchen for an hour. I invented a housemate called Tombo, named after a friend of mine. We built a little doorway for him, and that stretch of corridor for the robot to walk past the other housemate, Kristine - tiny sets, just walls, that's all we needed. And I added a line for the robot, "Residents will remain in their rooms!" Oh, and earlier, Kristine shouted an extra line, "Will you keep it down? Some of us have got work in the morning!" And then we filmed cutaway shots of the interior of the fridge - oh, the surest sign of a house-share! Everything labelled. Granola-obsessed Tombo with his furious "TOMBO!" We edited that together, and ta-daa! A house share instead of single occupancy, and crucially, a more believable companion for 2025, exactly how a young NHS nurse would be living. Just two more actors, a few lines in ADR, and four new shots - Tombo, Kristine-and-Robot, the fridge, and the reverse of Belinda looking into the fridge - and look, a crucially different Belinda is created. Nice!

Those were pick-ups, which are scenes shot after the official shoot has finished. There are also deleted scenes - material shot during the official shoot, but dropped in the edit. There was a very different opening for Belinda, starting on the day of her birth, with her mother, Lakshmi, and Aunty Devika... but we didn't use them, they didn't survive the first edit. It's common sense, really: a story about Belinda having a star named after her should start with Belinda having the star named after her. Simple as that. Sometimes you can't see the obvious until it's staring you in the face.

But the deleted scenes are good! Hang around, I'm sure **DWM** will cover them, and hopefully they'll be released one day soon.

As for *Lux*... well, I'm cautious of spoilers in case you haven't seen it yet, but that stayed very much as written. The greatest production problem was: a cinema in Miami? How the hell do we film the exterior?! Even as we discussed it, way before the script was written, that seemed to be a big ask. So I had separate plans in my head. Move the action to Blackpool in the 1950s. Nice, salty, atmospheric. The diner would become an all-night greasy spoon with factory workers beginning their shifts at 4am. Love a greasy spoon; Renée might have seemed a bit more lonely with a halo of steam coming off that shiny chrome urn. And she wouldn't have been called Renée in Blackpool, more like a Rita. So all those plans were turning...

...and then I handed in the script and our locations department said, "Oh, it's exactly like that old cinema in Penarth! Perfect for Miami! We can use that!" Doh. Three miles away from Bad Wolf Studios. So y'see, sometimes contingency plans aren't needed at all.

More to come next month as the running commentary continues. The truth about the Noctis Inknid. Our long history with the Orisha. Dugga Doo! The occupant of the Vault. And the issue after that, the finale rears into sight, with the Dispossessed, the Seekers, a very surprising novel, and the terrifying mysteries of the Bone Palace. So much more to come.

As a predecessor of mine loved to say... stay tuned!