---
author: Russell T Davies
lede: Zzz zzzt zip! Doctor Who's showrunner scrolls through his memories and looks ahead towards Season 2! 
---
My mind is like a microfiche.

Go and look it up, it's on YouTube. Before computers, we had microfilms and microfiche. Basically, photographs of documents, shrunk down and laid onto plastic sheets, which you'd then put into a microfiche machine. A magnifier, really. On the screen, you'd use controls to zoom in and out, whizz from side to side and up and down and even - the joy! - rotate! So it was like scrolling on a computer. But more physical somehow, more noisy, the machine would go *zzzz zzzt zip* as it whizzed over the pages. Or at least, that's the noise made by the clanky old microfiche in Manchester Central Library, back in the nineties. I used them for months in 1996, when I wrote a series called *The Grand* for ITV (below), the story of a big posh Manchester hotel in 1921. It pops up on ITV3 now and then, it was *Downton Abbey* without the money or the success. But my God, it was accurate, because my research meant sitting there with every copy of the *Manchester Evening News* from 1918 to 1922, all the pages photographed and laid out on the microfiche. I read them all, cover to cover, to soak in the period details.

I discovered many things. The weather, for one - there are episodes of *The Grand* that actually reflect the weather of that day. Series 1, Episode 7 had a gloomy rolling fog, which was a real thing on 17 November, 1921. And way beyond that, I read about mysterious giants washed up on the coast of Cornwall. A meeting of vegetarians in Manchester Town Hall. And, seriously, a distressing number of deaths from women said to have fallen downstairs, as domestic violence went unrecorded and unremarked.

But coming back to *Doctor Who*... Right now, my mind is going *zzz zzzt zip* every day, zooming left and right and up and down with so many options as we try to align Publicity and Marketing across the forthcoming series. Just remembering it all does my head in. What have we kept secret, for who and why?! And then a simple fact changes, and *zzz zzzt zip*, we all have to microfiche back to Page One and start again.

For example. Sometimes we keep guest stars secret. Sometimes as a surprise, sometimes just for fun. Now that's tricky in itself, because cast lists can be either Billings or Credits.

Billings contain the cast to be published in advance, in *Radio Times* or *TV Choice* or any listings magazine. But bear in mind, that list appears online 10 days to two weeks before the transmission of an episode. So, for example, last year, you're not going to release a Billing that says "Voice of Sutekh: Gabriel Woolf" before Episode 7, obviously. Spoiler! But! Hold on! You can't put him in the Billing for Episode 8 either, because that'll be seen before Episode 7 has been on air! D'you see? The microfiche in my head goes *zzz zzzt zip!*

Credits are the end credits in the show's titles. No surprises there. Indeed, you have to make sure you haven't left an actor's name off by mistake, that would be a major crime. The wonderful Louise in the Bad Wolf office takes care of this, she's no microfiche, she's got a brain like the computers in the Pentagon. But still, we can have fun, and sometimes Credits can have extra information, or a joke. There's a detail in this year's Ep 2 Credits (and kept out of Billings) that's a really lovely thing. So all these facts get shrunk into the microfiche!

Okay, how does this work in practice? Last week, I sat down with Publicity, and we looked at the cast list of one episode. We said, oh, wouldn't it be nice if we kept that actor's name a secret? Yes, okay, then we have to cross-check, and we go *zzz zzzt zip* over the information to compare with any TV trails that might show that actor. And we have to compare across *two* trails, the BBC trail and the Disney+ trail, which contain different shots, remembering also that someone who's famous in the UK might not be worldwide. But good news, we discover this actor isn't in either trail, fine. Excellent. Remove them from the Billings. They're secret! Nice plan.

But then! Today, material arrives from a completely different source - from Bright Branch, the makers of *Doctor Who: Unleashed*. They create their own material for online, completely independent of Billings or TV trails. I don't know what they've shot until it's sent to us to sign off. And sure enough, there in the What To Expect Next Week video is... the actor we'd just agreed to keep quiet. Now, sometimes we can ask them to edit that actor out. But in this case, the clip is great! It's a really nice moment, and a great advert for the show. So *zzz zzzt zip*, the microfiche scrolls back, zooms in, back to Page One; don't keep them secret, tell the press, trumpet their name! Whole new strategy, after 500 emails agreeing to the previous plan.

That's okay! That's the job. But bear in mind, that's the microfiche working on one actor's name, when that's actually happening with all the actors, all the time, and with all the other assets we've got, like plots and cliffhangers and monsters and robots and cartoons, constantly going *zzz zzzt zip* as their status changes, reveal, secret, deny? And repeat!

And then, just as everything is settled and decided and fixed... someone leaks the actor's name! Ahh, thanks so much! So the microfiche lights up, *zzz zzzt zip*, back to Page One, start again.

In other words...

Season Two is very close now, and I'm not going to give anything away on this page! So you get an extended microfiche analogy instead. Nice dodge! *zzz zzzt zip!*